# Design patterns from gang of four

Providing solutions to common software design problems are known as **Design Patterns**. Gang of four has explained about twenty-three design patterns which includes

**Creational Patterns**

- Abstract factory
- Builder
- Factory Method
- Prototype
- Singleton

**Structural Patterns**

- Adpater
- Bridge
- composite
- Decorator
- Facade
- Flyweight
- Proxy

**Behavioural Patterns**

- Chain of responsibility
- Command
- Interpreter
- Iterator
- Mediator
- Memento
- Observer
- State
- Strategy
- Template Method
- Visitor

Reference < http://www.blackwasp.co.uk/gofpatterns.aspx >

# Objects 

**Objects** are single entity that encapsulate variables and functions. These variables and functions are obtained by objects through class.

Below is a very basic class:

     class MyClass:
    variable = "blah"
    def function(self):
        print("This is a message inside the class.")

To assign this class to an object we will do,

     class MyClass:
    variable = "blah"
    def function(self):
        print("This is a message inside the class.")
    myobjectx = MyClass()

To access the object variable :

    class MyClass:
    variable = "blah"
    def function(self):
        print("This is a message inside the class.")
    myobjectx = MyClass()
    myobjectx.variable

Reference <https://www.learnpython.org/en/Classes_and_Objects>

# Exception

During the execution of the program if an error occurs it is known as **Exception**. An exception generated by python can be handled when an error occurs to avoid the program to crash.

If you feel that your code is gonna produce an error then you can use exception handling.

**Exception Error:**

- **IO Error** : If the file cannot be opened.

        except IOError:
        print('An error occurred trying to read the file.')

- **Import Error** : When the module is not found by the python.

        except ImportError:
        print "NO module found"

- **Value Error** : When a function receives an argument which has an inappropriate value but the right type.

        except ValueError:
        print('Non-numeric data found in the file.')

- **Keyboard Interupt** : When the interupt key (Control-C or Delete) is hit.

        except KeyboardInterrupt:
        print('You cancelled the operation.')

- **EOF Error** : When the built-in function (input() or raw_input()) hits the end-of-file condition without reading the data.

        except EOFError:
        print('Why did you do an EOF on me?')

Reference <https://www.pythonforbeginners.com/error-handling/exception-handling-in-python>